Robotidy 3.4.0
=========================================

Several fixes and improvements in ``SplitTooLongLine`` transformer and other transformers.

You can install the latest available version by running::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-tidy

or to install exactly this version::

    pip install robotframework-tidy==3.4.0

``SplitTooLongLine`` changes
------------------------------

Too long lines in run keywords (#451)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``SplitTooLongLine`` will not split too long line in run keywords (such as ``Run Keyword If`` or
``Wait Until Keyword Succeeds``) if ``IndentNestedKeywords`` is enabled. The too long lines will be split by
``IndentNestedKeywords`` instead.

Following code::

    *** Keywords ***
    Run keyword with too long lines
        Wait Until Keyword Succeeds    30 sec    1 sec    Run Keywords    Reload Page    AND    Element Should Contain    ${myVeryLongDefinitionOfAnElement}    ${addingTheSecondArgumentMakesThisLineTooLong}

When both ``SplitTooLongLine`` and ``IndentNestedKeywords`` were enabled was transformed to::

    *** Keywords ***
    Run keyword with too long lines
        Wait Until Keyword Succeeds
        ...    30 sec
        ...    1 sec
        ...    Run Keywords
        ...    Reload Page
        ...    AND
        ...    Element Should Contain
        ...    ${myVeryLongDefinitionOfAnElement}
        ...    ${addingTheSecondArgumentMakesThisLineTooLong}

Before, the formatting from the ``IndentNestedKeywords`` was overwritten by the ``SplitTooLongLine`` formatting.
Now indents in run keywords are preserved and too long lines are split properly::

    *** Keywords ***
    Run keyword with too long lines
        Wait Until Keyword Succeeds    30 sec    1 sec
        ...    Run Keywords
        ...        Reload Page
        ...        AND
        ...        Element Should Contain    ${myVeryLongDefinitionOfAnElement}
        ...            ${addingTheSecondArgumentMakesThisLineTooLong}

Too long lines in settings (#455)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

So far ``SplitTooLongLine`` only split the lines in the keyword calls and variables. This update extend the transformer
to also split too long lines in tags (``Default Tags``, ``Force Tags``, ``[Tags]``) and arguments (``[Arguments]``).
Support for the other setting will be added in the next releases.

It is possible to configure how arguments in settings will be split using ``split_on_every_setting_arg`` parameter.
Read more `in the documentation<https://robotidy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/transformers/SplitTooLongLine.html#split-settings-arguments-on-every-line>`_.

Comments in the lines
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If your line contains comments it can be recognized as too long. It may lead to producing less readable output, like
the one below:

From::

    ${VARIABLE_01}                                  a_value    # a short one-liner description for variable that goes over

To::

    # a short one-liner description for variable that goes over
    ${VARIABLE_01}
    ...    a_value

The value will be split to the new line even if it does not help readability since comment was moved before the
variable.
Now it is possible to ignore comments in ``SplitTooLongLine`` by using skip comment option::

    robotidy -c SplitTooLongLine:skip_comments=True <src>
    # or global option that skips formatting comments in all transformers
    robotidy --skip-comments <src>

In the previous code the line will now not be formatted since the line will not be recognized as too long (length of the
comment is removed from calculated line length).

Support for Python 3.11
-------------------------

Thanks to the user submission (@KotlinIsland) our CI now supports Python 3.11 and we are sure that Robotidy works
under it.
Dropping the support for our minimum supported Python version (3.7) is not planned right now but it can be possible
in the future. See this `reference<https://endoflife.date/python>`_ to check if your Python version still has
security support.
