Robotidy 3.6.0
=========================================


You can install the latest available version by running::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-tidy

or to install exactly this version::

    pip install robotframework-tidy==3.6.0

Rerun the transformation in place
----------------------------------

Because of high independence of each transformer, Robotidy runs them in specific order to obtain predictable results.
But sometimes the subsequent transformer modifies the file to the point that it requires another run of Robotidy.
Good example would be one transformer that replaces the deprecated syntax - but new syntax is inserted using standard
whitespace. If there is transformer that aligns this whitespace according to special rules (like ``AlignKeywordsSection``)
we need to run Robotidy again to format this whitespace.

This could be inconvenient in some cases where user had to rerun Robotidy without knowing why. That's why Robotidy
now has new option ``reruns`` that allows to define limit of how many extra reruns Robotidy can perform if the
file keeps changing after the transformation. The default is ``0`` (original behaviour). Recommended value is ``3``
although in vast majority of cases one extra run should suffice (and only in cases described above).

Example usage::

    > robotidy --reruns 3 --diff test.robot

Note that if you enable it, it can double the execution time of Robotidy (if the file was modified, it will be
transformed again to check if next transformation does not further modify the file). It should be not a problem because
Robotidy is fast enough but report any issues with this feature.

Load custom transformers together with defaults
------------------------------------------------

Previously Robotidy only supported importing custom transformers with ``--transform`` option. This option disables
any other transformer not listed with ``--transform``. That's why if user would run following::

    > robotidy --transform MyCustomClass.py test.robot

It would disable all default transformers and only run MyCustomClass.
This release introduces new option ``--load-transformer`` which imports custom transformers on top of the default ones::

    > robotidy --load-transformer MyCustomClass.py test.robot

It is also possible to pass transformer configuration either using this option or through ``--configure``::

    > robotidy -c ExtClass1.py:param=value --load-transformer ExtClass2.py:param2=value test.robot

Load custom transformers from the module
-------------------------------------------

It is now possible to load transformers from the Python module. Importing transformers from module works similarly
to how custom libraries are imported in Robot Framework. If the file has the same name as transformer, it will
be auto-imported. The following command::

    > robotidy --load-transformer CustomClass.py

will load ``class CustomClass`` from the ``CustomClass.py`` file. It's the old behaviour and it will not change.

If the file does not contain class with the same name, Robotidy will load all transformers from the file (using the
same logic as importing the module).

If you use directory or Python module, Robotidy will check the ``__init__.py`` file inside. By default it will import
all transformers from the ``__init__.py`` file::

    from robotidy.transformers import Transformer

    from other_file import TransformerB

    class TransformerA(Transformer)

will import ``TransformerB`` and ``TransformerA`` (it doesn't need to be defined in ``__init__.py``, it's enough that it's imported).

The order of defining will be used as execution order. If you want to use different order you can define ``TRANSFORMERS``
list in the ``__init__.py``::

    TRANSFORMERS = [
        "TransformerA",
        "TransformerB"
    ]
