:orphan:

==============
Robotidy 4.11.0
==============

Fixes for ``ReplaceWithVAR``, ``SplitTooLongLine and ``RenameVariables`` transformers. There are also major
improvements for Robotidy disablers.

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-tidy

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-tidy==4.11.0

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:


Fixes
=====

ReplaceWithVAR does detect empty separator as default separator (space) (#651)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Catenate with empty separator was incorrectly recognized as ${SPACE}. Following code::

    Catenate     SEPARATOR=    value

will now be transformed to::

    VAR    value    separator=${EMPTY}

ReplaceWithVAR Create Dictionary does not support passing key and values separately (#652)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixed missing support for ``Create Dictionary`` keyword with key and values in a list. Following code::

    ${dict}    Create Dictionary    key    value
    ${dict}    Create Dictionary    key=value  # already handled

should now be transformed to::

    VAR    &{dict}    key=value
    VAR    &{dict}    key=value  # already handled

SplitTooLongLine fails with fatal exception when splitting invalid keyword (#659)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

``SplitTooLongLine`` did not handle invalid syntax where keyword name was omitted::

    Keyword
        ${arg}    ${second_arg}
        ...    ${third_arg}

Such syntax will now be ignored and will not cause fatal exception.

Variables in tags should be renamed with RenameVariables (#641)
---------------------------------------------------------------

Variables defined in the ``[Tags]`` should be now handled by ``RenameVariables`` transformer. Following code::

    Test case
        [Tags]    tag with ${variable}
        Test Step

should now (with the default configuration) be transformed to::

    Test case
        [Tags]    tag with ${VARIABLE}
        Test Step

Typos in the documentation (#656, #588)
---------------------------------------

Several typos were fixed in our documentation. Feel free to report any issue - to improve documentation for everyone!

We have also reorganized some of the information in the documentation to make it easier to find information. For
example disablers are now in the separate page instead of the quickstart page.

Other features
==============

File disablers in Comments section (#587)
-----------------------------------------

Previously file formatting disablers were only recognized if they were placed in the first line of file::

    # robotidy: off
    *** Settings ***

Now Robotidy will acknowledge any disabler in the first comment section (with or without header)::

    Following line disables formatting of this file with Robotidy
   # robotidy: off

   *** Settings ***

Or::

    *** Comments ***
    # robotidy: off

   *** Test Cases ***

Disable selected transformers (#653)
------------------------------------

Robotidy disablers now supports not only disabling all transformers but selected ones::

    *** Test Cases ***
    Test with mixed variables
        Keyword call  ${global}  # robotidy: off = RenameVariables

Output of number of skipped files in run summary (#661)
-------------------------------------------------------

Skipped files are now reported separately in the run summary::

    > robotidy read_only_file.robot
    0 files reformatted, 0 files left unchanged. 1 file skipped.

Thanks @kottenko for contributing PR.

Errors outputted to error stream (#664)
---------------------------------------

Configuration or file errors use now error stream for reporting issues instead of standard output. It makes it easy
to notice issues when running Robotidy on Unix systems.

Thanks @kottenko for contributing PR.
