================
Robotidy 4.4.0
================

Added a possibility to ignore variables case in ``RenameVariables``. Fixed and improved ``RenameKeywords``.

You can install the latest available version by running::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-tidy

or to install exactly this version::

    pip install robotframework-tidy==4.4.0

Ignore variable case in RenameVariables (#540)
----------------------------------------------

Case of all variables is converted according to the configured conventions. It is now possible to pass the names of the
variables that should be ignored. By default, only ``${\n}`` variable is ignored and not transformed.

Configure ``ignore_case`` to set an additional list of variables to be ignored.
This parameter accepts comma-separated list of variable names (case-sensitive)::

    robotidy -c RenameVariables:ignore_case=true,LOCAL_THAT_SHOULD_BE_UPPER .

Fixes
=====

${_} variable is now preserved by ``RenameVariables`` (#540)
------------------------------------------------------------

``${_}`` variable was transformed to ``${}``. It should be now handled correctly and ignored when formatting the file.

RenameKeywords capitalizes keywords with mixed spaces and underscores correctly (#537)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Keywords with spaces and underscores were not capitalized correctly. First letter of each word was repeated.

Following code::

    Keyword _with_Problematic_Space_Underscore_Combination

was transformed to::

    Keyword With PPoblematic SSace UUderscore CCmbination

It should be now handled correctly.


RenameKeywords does not remove whitespace after variable (#538)
----------------------------------------------------------------

``RenameKeywords`` will now correctly replace underscore with space after variables::

    Embedded ${variable}_And_Removed_Underscores

will be transformed to::

    Embedded ${variable} And Removed Underscores
